<<DOCUMENT_START>>
<<PAGE_1>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994
Ar |
vat wearacit
amt
agam 6
Indian Standard |
GLOSSARY OF TERMS RELATING TO RIVER
VALLEY PROJECTS
PART 11 HYDROLOGY | |
Section 6 Ground Water
UDC 001-4 : 627-81 : 626-811
© BIS 1994
BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS
MANAK BHAVAN, 9 BAHADUR SHAH ZAFAR MARG
NEW DELHI 110002
September 1994 | Price Group 4<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_2>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>Terminology Relating to River Valley Projects Sectional Committee, RVD 2 FOREWORD This Indian Standard was adopted by the Bureau of Indian Standards, after the draft finalized A number of Indian Standards have been published covering various aspects of river valley The revision of this standard has been taken upinthe light of experience gained during the This standard was first published in 1985. This revision is being taken up to update the defined
by the Terminology Relating to River Valley Projects Sectional Committee, had been approved projects and a number of similar standards are in the process of formulation. These standards use of this standard. In this revision certain definitions have been modified and definitions terms so as to provide a more comprehensive compilation of the terms contained therein. This
by the River Valley Division Council. include the precise definitions of technical terms which are required to avoid ambiguity in their relating to field practice have been included. revision is based on the suggestions of the ‘Ground water and Preliminary Investigation’
interpretation. To achieve this end, the Bureau has brought out IS 4410 ‘Glossary of terms Sectional Committee RVD 3. |
relating to river valley projects’ which has been published in various parts. This part ( Part 11)
contains definitions of terms relating to hydrology.<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_3>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994
Indian Standard
PART 11 HYDROLOGY
Section 6 Ground Water
1 SCOPE material and is saturated to yield significant
; quantities of water to wells and springs.
1.1 This standard (Part 11/Section 6) covers }
definitions of terms relating to ground water. 2.8 Aquifer Loss, Formation Loss
2 GROUND WATER The head loss at a pumped or overflowing well
associated with groundwater flow through the
2.1 Abstraction aquifer to the well face.
The removal of water from any ground water 2.9 Aquifer Properties
source, either permanently or temporarily.
The properties of an aquifer that determine its
2.2 Access Tube hydraulic behaviour and its response to
. abstraction.
A pipe inserted into a well to permit installa-
tion of instruments, and safeguarding them 2.10 Aquifer Test
from touching or becoming entangled with the j ;
pump or other equipment in the well. A test involving the withdrawal of measured
quantities of water from or addition of water
2.3 Adhesive Water to, a well and measurement of resulting changes
. . ; in head of the aquifer both during or after the
Water forming a film around soil particles, . .
over adsorbed water, and held by the forces period of discharge or addition.
of molecular attraction, after gravity water has 2,11 Aquifage
drained, but with less strength than absorption . ; ;
water and without perceptible emission of heat. An impermeable formation which has no inter-
Adsorbed water is entirely fixed, whereas connected openings and hence cannot absorb
adhesive or pellicular water may move from OF transmit water.
one particle to another. 2.12 Aquitard
2.4 Absorbed Water It is a saturated but poorly permeable stratum
Water held onthe surface of individual soil wat ground elle but thet and oes
particles by the forces of molecular attraction iabl af , may
with emission of heat ( heat of wetting ). appreciable water to and from adjacent aquifers.
2.5 Annual Depletion Rate 2.13 Apparent Velocity of Ground Water
The average rate overa period of years at The apparent distance covered per unit time by
which withdrawals in excess of recharge deplete water in the saturated Zone. It is
the storage depth in a ground water reservoir, defined as the volume of water flowing per unit
time divided by the cross-sectional area taken
2.6 Aquiclude perpendicular to the streamlines.
A formation or group formations which, al- 444 Area of Artesian Flow
though porous and capable of absorbing water ;
slowly, will not transmit it rapidly enough to Aland or water surface which lies below a
furnish a sufficient supply for a well or spring, plezometric surface. It is an area in which
even under saturated conditions. \ the water of some underlying aquifer is under
sufficient pressure to rise above the surface.
2.7 Aquifer
. . 2.15 Artesian Basin
A formation or group of formations or a part
of formation that contains sufficient permeable Areal extent of a confined aquifer.
1<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_4>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994
2.16 Artesian Flow 2.26 Column Pipe |
Natural flow above the ground from wells and That part of the rising main within the well.
springs in an artesian basin. 2.27 Coefficient of Permeability
2.17 Artesian Head The rate of flow of a fluid through a unit cross-
i der a unit hydraulic
The height above the bottom of the upper S¢ction of a porous mass un
confining formation, to which the water in a &fadient at a specified temperature.
confined aquifer would rise, if free to do so. 2.28 Confined Aquifer
2.18 Artesian Pressure An aquifer bounded above and below by imper-
The pressure exerted by a body of water con- meable formation where groundwater is confined
fined in a waterbearing geologic formation, der pressure greater than atmospheric pres-
against a superimposed impermeable or less SUre- Both the aquifer and water it contains
permeable formation, the pressure usually being te said to be confined.
due to the fact that the free water level of the ‘ a Confinin
sub-surface water body stands at a higher level 2.25 Bed, Confining Layer or
than that of the bottom of the upper confining
formation. An impervious stratum directly above or below
2.19 Artesian Spring one bearing water
i ter.
Water issuing under artesian pressure, generally 2-30 Confined Ground Water
through some fissure or other opening, in the A body of ground water overlain by material
confining bed that overlies an aquifer. sufficiently impervious to sever free hydraulic
i connection with overlying ground water except
2.20 Artesian Water at the intake. Confined ground water moves
Sub-surface water under sufficient pressure to under the pressure due to difference in head
cause it to rise above the bottom of the super- between intake and discharge areas of the con-
imposed confining formation, if afforded an fined water body and is under sufficient pressure
opportunity todo so. Flowing artesian wells to rise above the bottom of the upper confining
are produced when the pressure is sufficient to bed, if given an opportunity to do so.
force the water above the land surface. 2.31 Cone of Depression
2.21 Artificial Recharge The depression, roughly conical in shape,
Artificial recharge is the augmentation of the produced in a water table, or piezometric sur-
natural infiltration of precipitation, or surface face by extraction of water from a well at a
water, into underground formation by some given rate.
method of construction, spreading of water, or 2.32 Connate Water
by artificially changing natural conditions. °
Water which has entered a rock formation by
2.22 Average Velocity of Ground Water being entrapped in the interstices of the rock
The velocity measured as the volume of ground Material (either sedimentary or  extrusive
water passing per unit time through a unit igneous ) at the time the material was deposited
cross-sectional area divided by the porosity of 274 has been out of contact with the atmos-
the aquifer material. phere for at least an appreciable part of
ologic period.
2.23 Base Flow Beotogie P
. 2.33 Capillary Fringe/Capillary Z
The sustained or dry weather flow of streams pillary Fringe/Capillary Zone
resulting from the outflow of permanent or The zone immediately above the water-table
perched ground water and from the draining extending upto the limit of capillary rise of
of large lakes and swamps. water. It may consist solely of capillary water
2.24 Borehol or it may be combined with gravity water in
. orehote transit to the water-table.
A hole, usually vertical, bored to determine eas
sub-surface conditions, for extraction of water 2.34 Critical Velocity of Ground Water
or measurement of groundwater level. The maximum velocity under which laminar
2.25 Casing flow can occur in porous media.
A tube used as temporary or permanent lining 2.35 Cavern Water
for a well. Water in large, tubular or cavernous openings.
2<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_5>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994
2.36 Darcy’s Law term used in studies of ground water which
The flow rate through porous media is propor- all types of strata. field
tional to the head loss and inversely propor- is usually expressed as percentage of
tional to the length of flow path which is weight whilst specific retention is generally
primarily governed by Darcy’s Law which is 8!Ven as percentage by volume.
expressed — Ki 2.44 Field Coefficient of Permeability
or Q = KAi Coefficient of permeability at the prevailing
temperature of water.
where
Q = quantity of water flowing in the aquifer 2.45 Filter Pack
material; Granular material introduced into the annular
K = aconstant, it depends upon porosity space between the aquifer and screen or per-
and permeability of the aquifer mate- forated lining, to prevent or control the move-
rial; and is called coefficient of ment of particles of the aquifer into the well.
_ 2.46 Fissure Water, Fault Water
loss of length or hydraulic in open fractures, joints, faults in rock
gracient; formations which is usually in abundance only
V = velocity of water in the aquifer mate- pear the ground surface.
rial; and
A = cross-sectional area of aquifer material 2.47 Flow Lines
through which the water flows. Lines showing the path of flow of ground
2.37 Discharge of Ground Water water,
The outflows of ground water from the litho- 2.48 Flownet
sphere to the earth surface. A net of equipotential lines and flow lines
2.38 Drawdown intersecting at right angles.
The reduction in static head within the aquifer 2.49 Fluctuation of Water Table
resulting from abstraction.
2.39 Effective Porosit The upward and downward movements of the
ect y water table due to periods of recharge and
It is the ratio of interconnected interstitial discharge of water in the zone of saturation.
volume and the toial volume of a water trans-
mitting medium. The of thar branch of hydrol lati
1 ting
2.40 Effective Velocity, Actual Velocity, True © study Of bat ofanen OF
. to sub-surface or subterranean water in its
Velocity, Field Velocity of Ground Water geological context.
The velocity measured by the volume of ground
water passing per unit time through unit cross- 2.51 Geyser
sectional area divided by effective porosity of A thermal spring from which hot water steam
the water transmitting material. . is intermittently thrown vertically toa consi-
2.41 Effluent Stream, Gaining Stream derable height.
A stream or a stretch of a stream whichreceives 2.52 Ground Water
water from ground water in the zone of satura- Sub-surface water occupying the zone of
tion. The water surface of such a stream saturation and which is free to move under
stands at a lower jevel than the water table, or gravity, Ina strict sense the term applies only
piezometric surface of the ground water body, to water below the water table.
from which it receives water.
. ‘ 2,53 Ground Water Balance
2.42 Equipotential Lines : hich hat all
: : t isa concept which states that all inputs o
Points having the same water in a defined space and time are equal to
P . . . the sum of all outputs of water, and the changes
2.43 Field Capacity, Specific Retention of water storage, in the same space and time.
The amount of water held in the soil after the :
excess gravitational water has drained away 2.54 Ground Water Basin
and after the rate of downward movement of Physiographic or geological unit containing at
water has materially decreased. Essentially the least one aquifer of significant areal extent
same as ‘specific retention’, it is a more general capable of furnishing a substantial water supply.
3<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_6>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994 P The volume of water at the existing kinematic um.
2.55 Ground Water Budgeting 2.65 Ground Water Trench 2.57 Ground Water Dam viscosity that will move in unit time under a A line on a water table on each side of which
A detailed estimate of the amount of water A trench-shaped depression of the water table A natural or artificial body of material which unit hydraulic gradient through a unit area of the water table slopes downward in the direction 2.70 Hydrogeology
added to the ground water reservoir of a given caused by cffluent seepage into a drainage ditch, is impermeable, or has only low permeability, cross section measured perpendicular to the away from the line. A branch of earth science dealing with the sub-
area ( recharge ) balanced against estimates of drainage pipe, or stream or by movement of and which occurs below the surface in sucha direction of flow. 2.60 Ground Water Hydrology surface distribution of rock formations and
amounts of withdrawals from the ground water ground water to the thalweg underlying a position that it impedes the horizontal move- NOTE —- This definition assumes an isotropic med- The Branch of hydrology relating to sub-surface their ability to receive, store and transmit
reservoir of the area during a specified period. stream and by artificial pumping by battery of ment of ground water and consequently causes ium in which the pores are completely filled with or subterranean water.
2.56 Ground Water Cascade wens. pronounced difference in the leve] of the water water. 2.61 Ground Water Increment, Ground Water 2.71 Hydrograph ( Gr oundwater )
The descent of ground water ona steep hydra- 2-66 Ground Water Turbulent Flow table on its opposite sides. 2.68 Hydraulic Gradient Accretion Ground water graph which shows water level
ulic gradient to a lower and flatter water table . . 2.58 Ground Water Decrement or Discharge The change in hydraulic head of the aquifer per Water added to the ground water reservoir in @ well, plotted against time.
slope. A cascade occurs below a ground water How which occurs in Water abstracted from the ground water reser- unit distance in the direction of flow. any given time interval from all sources, in-
barrier or dam, and at the contact of less per- 8 TUES. voir by evaporation, transpiration, spring flow fluent seepage from streams, rainfall, irrigation 2.72 Hydro Isopleth Map
meable material with more permeable material, 2.67 Hydraulic Conductivity and effluent seepage, pumping wells and outflow 2-69 Hydraulic Head and inflow of ground water from outside the A map showing fluctuation of water table with
ownslope. of ground water under the area within {is the height of piezometric surface ( for area under consideration. respect to time and space.
consideration. confined aquifer ) or water table ( for uncon- 2.62 Ground Water Mound, Ground Water Ridge 2.73 Hydraulic Profile of an Aquifer
2.59 Ground Water Divide/Ridge fined aquifer ) at a particular location above a A mound-shaped or ridge-shaped pattern of }
ground water built up by influent seepage. A vertical section of the plezometric surface
2.63 Ground Water Recharge, Recharge of an or the water table of an aquifer.
Aquifer 2.74 Incompetent Stratum
Replenishment or addition of water to the 4 stratum which will yield to flowage or
ground water storage by natural processes OF shear when under stress.
artificial methods.
2.64 Ground Water Storage 2.75 Induced Recharge of an Aquifer
Volume of ground water available at any Discharge of water from a stream into an
instance of time. induced by lowering of the water table.
4
oe _<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_7>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994 . t A well from which groundwater is discharged 2.82 Intake Area ( Recharge Area ) of an Aquifer 2.92 Perched Ground Water 2.83 Intermediate Vadose Water perched water body. PPlY ater in the intermediate vadose z 2.94 Perennial Spring j ; ; A spring that discharges continuously at all . . it at perceptible rates under the normal hydra- . ulic gradients. PP 4 2.97 Pellicular Water — See 2.3. |
2.76 Infiltration Rate 2.87 Lining Material that does not permit water to move 4+ the ground surface without the aid of System Ground water occurring ina limited area in an Water in the intermediate vadose zone. 2.84 Intermediate Vadose Zone ; . ; It is the portion of the zone of aeration which seasons of the year. A line on a map connecting all points of equal ; : elevation, to which water pressure in a water- 2.86 Leaky Aquifer
The rate at which infiltration takes place €X- A tube or wall used to support the sides of a through it at a perceptible rate under the nor- pumping. The surface area where the water gets absorbed Unsaturated zone separated from the main body lies between the lower edge of soil water zone bearing formation would rise if free todo so; 4 96 Permeability . . . 2.98 Piestic Interval
pressed in depth of water per unit of time, well, and sometimes to prevent the entry of mal hydraulic gradients normally present. from perception or surface flow, which even- of the ground water by an impervious stratum. and the upper limit of capillarism. 2.95 Permeable Material a line connecting all points of equal pressure in . Aquifer overlain and/or underlain by a rela-
usually in millimeters per hour. water. ; Teaches the zone of saturation of an 493 perched Spring 2.85 Isopiestic Line, Pressure Surface Contour Material that permits water to move through a water-bearing formation under ‘pressure; or It is defined as the characteristic of medium to tively thin semi-pervious layer, through which The difference in static level between two 1so-
2.77 Infiltration Rate Curve 2.88 Lithosphere A spring whose source of water supply is a a line connecting all points of equai altitude on transmit water. flow into or out of the aquifer can take place. piestic lines or lines of equal pressure.
Curve showing the actual rate of infiltration 7). solid part of the earth as distinguished the upper surface of an unconfined aquifer. 3
with respect to time. from the hydrosphere and the atmosphere.
2.78 Infiltrometer This part of the earth is predominantly com-
posed of rocks (either coherent or incoherent,
A device to measure rate of infiltration 1m e€X- and including the disintegrated rock materials
perimental observations. known as soil and subsoil), together with
: e ing i i t.
2.79 Influent Percolation verything in this rocky crus
Movement of water, in the zone of aeration, 2.89 Natural Recharge
the water table . .
from the ground surface toward the It is that portion of water which gravitates to
under the force of gravity. es
the zone of saturation under natural conditions.
2.80 Influent Stream, Loosing Stream 2.90 Ob ton Well
A stream or stretch of a stream which contri- servation We
butes water to the zone of saturation. The A special well drilled, or an existing well, ina
water surface of such a stream stands at selected location for the purpose of observing
higher level than the water table, or piezome- parameters such as water levels and quality
tric surface, of the ground water body to which changes.
it contributes water.
. 2.91 Overflowing Well
2.81 Impermeable Material<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_8>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) ; 1994
2.99 Phreatic Cycle, Cycle of Fluctuation 2.109 Pumping Test
The total time occupied by a period of rise and A test which is conducted to determine aquifer
a succeeding period of decline of a water table. or well characteristics.
The most common kinds of cycles are daily,
seasonal, annual, and secular. 2.110 Radius of Influence
2.100 Phreatic Surface It is the radial distance from the centre of the
. well to the point where the cone of depression
The upper boundary of an unconfined ground .
water body, at which the water pressure is meets the static or unaffected
equal to the atmospheric pressure.
2.101 Phreatic Water 2.111 Recuperation
Ground water occurring in the zoneof satura- Recovery of water table after cessation of
tion having a water table. pumping or withdrawal of water.
2.102 Physical Yield Limit, Potential Yield 2.112 Rising Main
The greatest rate of artificial withdrawal from 7 ‘ \
an aquifer, which can be maintained through- A of from within a well to
out the foreseeable future without regard to
cost of recovery. The physical yield limit is,
therefore, equal to the present recharge, or 2.113 Running Plot
that anticipated in the foreseeable future, less 4 graph of a variable against elapsed time
the unrecoverable natural discharge. continually updated as measurements are taken.
2.103 Piezometri P f |
le 0 e ric Surface, ressure Surface 2.114 Saturated Zone
It is an imaginary surface to which the water
in a confined aquifer would rise if afforded an That part of an aquifer, normally beneath the
opportunity to do so. deepest water table, in which ideally all voids
. are filled with water under pressure greater than
2.104 Porosity atmospheric.
Porosity is an index ofthe void characteristics + 445 Safe Yield
of a soil or stratum as pertaining to percolation
and is the ratio, usually expressed as a percen- The maximum rate at which water can be
tage, of the volume of voids of a given soil artificially withdrawn from an aquifer through-
mass to the total volume of soil mass. out the foreseeable future without impairing
the aquifer.
2.105 Pere Water
Water in the interstices or voids of the 2-116 Screen
formation. A type of lining tube, with openings designed to
2.106 Potential Yield permit the flow of water into a well while pre-
ventiag the entry of aquifer or filter pack
The maximum rate of artificial withdrawalfrom material,
an aquifer, which can be maintained throughout
the foreseeable future without regard to cost 2,117 Seepage
of recovery. The potential yield is, therefore, mM
equal to the present recharge, or that antici. A slow movement of water due to capillary
pated in the foreseeable future, less the unre- action through pores and interstices of unsatu-
coverable natural discharge. rated close soil material into, a surface, or
sub-surface, body of water reach as a river,
2.107 Potentiometric Surface canal, reservoirs or field,
The surface that represents the static head of 4 1418 Soil Water
ground water. h '
The suspended water in the uppermost layer o
2.108 Profile of Water Table soil of the zone of aeration and lying near
The line formed by the intersection of the enough to the surface to be discharged into the
water table with a vertical plane. The term is atmosphere by the transpiration of plants or by
also applied to a graphical representation of evaporation from the soil ( includes hygrosco-
such a line. pic, capillary and non-capillary water ).
6 .<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_9>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>| IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1594
2.119 Soil Water Zone 2.128 Sub-Surface Water
Part of the zone of aeration that consists of
soi] and other materials near the ground surface, Water that occurs beneath the surface of the
capable of discharging water into the atmos- solid (ia the lithosphere It may be in liquid,
phere by transpiration of plants or by evapora- qs gascous state. It is also called under-
tion, The zone extends from the ground surface water or subterranean water.
to major root zone and the thickness varies 2,129 Suspended Water
with the soil and vegetation cover.
Water in the zone of aeration.
2.120 Spring
A concentrated natural discharge of ground 2.130 Transmissivity
water appearing at the surface asa current of The rate at which water of the prevailing
flowing water. kinematic is transmitted through a
‘ : unit width of the saturated aquifer under a unit
2.121 Specific Capacity _ hydraulic gradient.
The rate of discharge of water from a well divided
by the drawdown within the well. 2.131 Unconsolidated Aquifer
2.122 Specific Yield A loose formation which can hold and transmit
water.
The quantity of water that a unit volume of
permeable rock or soil, after being saturated, 2-132 Vadose Water
will yield when drained by gravity. It may be 2,129
expressed as a ratio or as a percentage by
volume. The sum of specific retention and 2,133 Water of Compaction
specific yield equals the porosity of the material
drained. (This definition is different from that Water furnished by destruction of pore space
of surface water. ) owing to compaction of sediments.
2.123 Specific Retention 2.134 Water of Condensation
The ratio of the volume of water that a given Water formed by condensatioa of water vapours
body of rock or soil will hold against the pull appearing from the atmosphere or soil air in
of gravity to the total volume of the body rock interstices and also of water vapours ari-
itself. sing from the magmosphere or from the
2.124 Static Water Level focuses of the lithos phere.
The water level in a non-pumping well outside 2.135 Water of Infiltration
the area of influence of any pumping well. oo,
This level registers one point ‘on the water The part of the surface water or precipitation
table in a water-table well or one point on the through ont, of
i ; é soil an
pressure surface in a confined water well. interstices in the rock.
2.125 Static Head
. . 2.136 Water Logging
The height, relative to an arbitrary reference,
level, or a column of water that can be sup- A phenomenon where water stands near, at,
ported by the static pressure at a given point. or above the land surface causing damage to .
2.126 Coefficient of an Aquifer plant roots.
A dimensionless fraction representiag the 2-137 Water Table ( Phreatic Surface )
volume of water released or stored from a . .
vertical prism of the aquifer having a base of aquifer. zone of saturation in an
unit area and a height equal to the thickness of °
the aquifer, when the piezometric surface falls 2.138 Water Table Contour
or rises one unit of height normal to the surface.
In an unconfined aquifer the coefficient of A line drawn on a map and passing through the
storage is essentially equal to the specific yield. points where the water table has the same
elevation above a specified datum plane.
2.127 Subterranean Stream
A body of flowing water that passes through a 2.139 Water Table Spring/Depression Spring
very large interstice, such as a cave A spring that occurs at the intersection of the
or a group of large communicating interstices. water table and the surface.
7<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_10>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>IS 4410 ( Part 11/Sec 6 ) : 1994
2.140 Well 2.144 Zone of Aeration, Aeration Zone, Zone of
. . dose Z
An artificial excavation (pit, hole, tunnel) Suspended Water, Unsaturated Zone/Vadose Zone
generally cylindrical in form and often walled Zone of earth materials or rock from which the
in sunk (drilled, dug, driven, bored or jetted) ground and capillary water has drained out,
into the ground to such a depth as to penetrate leaving the interstices filled with air and water
water yielding rock or soil and allow the water held or suspended by molecular forces, such as
to flow or to be pumped to the surface. cohesion, adhesion and surface tension. It
2.141 Well Development extends from ground surface to water table.
. . 2.145 Zone of Fluctuation of Water Table, Zone
The physical and chemical treatment ofa well of Phreatic Fluctuation
to ach between well and aquifer © movement of The zone through which the water table fluct-
. t
uates from its highest to the lowest level
2.142 Well Efficiency within the formation, in response to the dis-
. charge and recharge conditions. Depending
A measure of the performance of a production upon the position of the water table in the zone,
well. a part of the zone will lie in the zone of aera-
2.143 Well Loss tion and the other part will lie in the zone of
saturation.
The head loss resulting from flow of ground-
water across the well face, including any part 2-146 Zone of Saturation
of the aquifer affected by drilling, and any Zone in which interstices of rock or other
filter pack or lining tube, into the well and up materials are filled with water under hydro-
or down the well to the pump. static pressure.
8<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<PAGE_11>>
<<PARAGRAPH>>Bureau of Indian Standards
BIS is a statutory institution established under the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 to
promote harmoious development of the activities of standardization, marking and quality
certification of goods and attending to: connected matters in the country.
Copyright | |
BIS has the copyright of all its publications. No part of these publications may be reproduced
in any form without the prior permission in writing of BIS. This does not preclude the free use,
in the course of implementing the standard, of necessary details, such as symbols and sizes, type
or grade designations. Enquiries relating to copyright be addressed to the Director
( Publications ), BIS. |
Revision of Indian Standards
Amendments are issued to standards as the need arises on the basis of comments. Standards
are also reviewed periodically; a standard along with amendments is reaffirmed when such review
indicates that no changes are needed; if the review indicates that changes are needed, it is taken
up for revision. Users of Indian Standards should ascertain that they are in possession of the
latest amendments or edition by referring to the latest issue of ‘BIS Handbook’ and ‘Standards
Monthly Addition’.
This Indian Standard has been developed from Doc : No. RVD 2( 143).
Amendments Issued Since Publication
Amend No. Date of Issue Text Affected
BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS
Headquarters:
Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi 110002
Telephones : 331 01 31, 331 13 75 Telegrams : Manaksanstha
( Common to all Offices )
Regional Offices : Telephone
Central : Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg 331 01 31
. NEW DELHI 110002 1331 13 75
Eastern : 1/14 C. 1. T. Scheme VIII M, V. I. P. Road, Maniktola (378499, 3785 61
CALCUTTA 700054 137 86 26, 37 8662
| (60 38 43,
Northern : SCO 335-336, Sector 34-A, CHANDIGARH 160022 1 60 20 25
| | 7 23502 16, 2:
Southern : C. I. T. Campus, IV Cross Road, MADRAS 600113 £239 02 16, 23504 42
235 15 19, 235 23 15
Western : Manakalaya, E9 MIDC, Marol, Andheri ( East ) (632 9295, 63278 58
BOMBAY 400093 1.632 78 91, 632 78 92
Branch : AHMADABAD. BANGALORE. BHOPAL. BHUBANESHWAR. COIMBATORE.
FARIDABAD. GHAZIABAD, GUWAHATI. HYDERABAD. JAIPUR. KANPUR
LUCKNOW. PATNA. THIRUVANANTHPURAM.
Printed at Printwell Printers, Aligath, India”<<PARAGRAPH_END>>
<<PAGE_END>>
<<SECTION_START:METADATA>>
Document Type: Scanned
Total Pages: 11
<<SECTION_END>>
<<DOCUMENT_END>>